README.md, before:

# Downloading files from Space Weather Data Share API
[![](https://img.shields.io/github/license/embrace-inpe/swds-api-downloader.svg)](https://github.com/embrace-inpe/swds-api-downloader/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.0.2-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/embrace-inpe/swds-api-downloader)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/INPE-EMBRACE-orange.svg)](http://www2.inpe.br/climaespacial/portal/pt/)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-96%25-green.svg)](https://github.com/embrace-inpe/swds-api-downloader)

This is a python app sample to help users to automatically download files through Space Weather Data Share API.


Configuration
-----------------
There is two ways to set the search values, by command line args or setting the variables values in code.

For both cases you need to set the variables on the `settings.py`.
- **HOST** `(The API host address)`
- **USERNAME** `(The username or e-mail)`
- **PASSWORD** `(The password)`

After that you can choose which method you prefer.

1. ### By Command Line
This way require the command line args as bellow:

```bash
python swds-downloader.py -a 1 -i 2017-04-01 -e 2017-04-23 -r 1 -s 1 -p ./tmp/magnetometer/
```
See the avaliables args:
```text
-h -H --help = Show the helper text with the avaliable options

** Filters
    
-a --app = An integer Application ID (Required)
-s --station = An integer Station ID (Optional)
-r --resolution = An integer Resolution ID (Optional)
-f --filter = An integer Filter ID (Optional)
-t --type = An integer Type ID (Optional)
-n --network = An integer Network ID (Optional)
-q --equipment = An integer Equipment ID (Optional)

** Dates
-i --start_date = A string with format yyyy-mm-dd (Required)
-e --end_date = A string with format yyyy-mm-dd (Required)

** Path to save the files
-p --path = A string with the absolute path to save the files (Required)
```
2. ### Setting Variables in Code
For run the program without command line args you must edit the `settings.py` file variables with your personal information:

- **SEARCH** `(Search parameters)`
- **PATH_TO_SAVE** `(Path to save the files)`

```python
# Search filters
# You must pass these values if you are not using the command line args
SEARCH = {
    'application': 1,
    'start_date': '2017-04-01',
    'end_date': '2017-04-23',
    'resolution': 1,
    'station': 1,
    'filter': None,
    'type': None,
    'network': None,
    'equipment': None
}

# Path to save the files
PATH_TO_SAVE = './tmp/magnetometer/'

# The API host address
# e.g: http://datashare.ebrace.inpe.br
HOST = ''

# Credentials
# The username key can be your username or e-mail
USERNAME = ''
PASSWORD = ''
```

Run the program
-----------------

After configuring you environment, you can run the program with the following command:
```bash
python swds-downloader.py
```

If everything runs fine, you should have a console output like this:
```console
    *****************************************************
    
    Starting files download from Space Weather Data Share API
    Total: 2 file(s)
    
    *****************************************************
    
   Downloading file: sjc23apr.17m to ./tmp/magnetometer/SJC/2017/sjc23apr.17m
   Downloading file: sjc22apr.17m to ./tmp/magnetometer/SJC/2017/sjc22apr.17m


    *****************************************************
    Download success: 2
    Download failed: 1 

    Done! All files are in your path ./tmp/magnetometer/
```
Custom script
-----------------
This page is an example of how to download files from EMBRACE/INPE service (SW Data Share). Please, fell free to customize your own script with different applications, dates and filters.

Testing
-----------------
After you have set the variables in `settings.py` with you personal information, you need to install the dependencies listed in `requirements.txt`:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Then, run the command:
```bash
python runtests.py
```

Help
-----------------
Any question or suggestion, please, contact our support sending an email to [desenvolvimento.emabrace@inpe.br](mailto:desenvolvimento.emabrace@inpe.br).

Commit message:

Include the log error, fix the parameters name swfilter and swtype

README.md, after:

# Downloading files from Space Weather Data Share API
[![](https://img.shields.io/github/license/embrace-inpe/swds-api-downloader.svg)](https://github.com/embrace-inpe/swds-api-downloader/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.0.3-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/embrace-inpe/swds-api-downloader)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/INPE-EMBRACE-orange.svg)](http://www2.inpe.br/climaespacial/portal/pt/)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-84%25-green.svg)](https://github.com/embrace-inpe/swds-api-downloader)

This is a python app sample to help users to automatically download files through Space Weather Data Share API.


Configuration
-----------------
There is two ways to set the search values, by command line args or setting the variables values in code.

For both cases you need to set the variables on the `settings.py`.
- **HOST** `(The API host address)`
- **USERNAME** `(The username or e-mail)`
- **PASSWORD** `(The password)`

After that you can choose which method you prefer.

1. ### By Command Line
This way require the command line args as bellow:

```bash
python swds-downloader.py -a 1 -i 2017-04-01 -e 2017-04-23 -r 1 -s 1 -p ./tmp/magnetometer/
```
See the avaliables args:
```text
-h -H --help = Show the helper text with the avaliable options

** Filters
    
-a --app = An integer Application ID (Required)
-s --station = An integer Station ID (Optional)
-r --resolution = An integer Resolution ID (Optional)
-f --swfilter = An integer Filter ID (Optional)
-t --swtype = An integer Type ID (Optional)
-n --network = An integer Network ID (Optional)
-q --equipment = An integer Equipment ID (Optional)

** Dates
-i --start_date = A string with format yyyy-mm-dd (Required)
-e --end_date = A string with format yyyy-mm-dd (Required)

** Path to save the files
-p --path = A string with the absolute path to save the files (Required)
```
2. ### Setting Variables in Code
For run the program without command line args you must edit the `settings.py` file variables with your personal information:

- **SEARCH** `(Search parameters)`
- **PATH_TO_SAVE** `(Path to save the files)`

```python
# Search filters
# You must pass these values if you are not using the command line args
SEARCH = {
    'application': 1,
    'start_date': '2017-04-01',
    'end_date': '2017-04-23',
    'resolution': 1,
    'station': 1,
    'swfilter': None,
    'swtype': None,
    'network': None,
    'equipment': None
}

# Path to save the files
PATH_TO_SAVE = './tmp/magnetometer/'

# The API host address
# e.g: http://datashare.ebrace.inpe.br
HOST = ''

# Credentials
# The username key can be your username or e-mail
USERNAME = ''
PASSWORD = ''
```

Run the program
-----------------

After configuring you environment, you can run the program with the following command:
```bash
python swds-downloader.py
```

If everything runs fine, you should have a console output like this:
```console
    *****************************************************
    
    Starting files download from Space Weather Data Share API
    Total: 2 file(s)
    
    *****************************************************
    
   Downloading file: sjc23apr.17m to ./tmp/magnetometer/SJC/2017/sjc23apr.17m
   Downloading file: sjc22apr.17m to ./tmp/magnetometer/SJC/2017/sjc22apr.17m


    *****************************************************
    Download success: 2
    Download failed: 1 

    Done! All files are in your path ./tmp/magnetometer/
```
Custom script
-----------------
This page is an example of how to download files from EMBRACE/INPE service (SW Data Share). Please, fell free to customize your own script with different applications, dates and filters.

Testing
-----------------
After you have set the variables in `settings.py` with you personal information, you need to install the dependencies listed in `requirements.txt`:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Then, run the command:
```bash
python runtests.py
```

Log
-----------------

Download errors will be listed in `error.log` on root path.

Help
-----------------
Any question or suggestion, please, contact our support sending an email to [desenvolvimento.emabrace@inpe.br](mailto:desenvolvimento.emabrace@inpe.br).
